# Comparative-Analysis-of-Classical-ML-and-Neural-Network-Models-for-Pig-Weight-Prediction

#Abstract: 
Given the importance of pork and the intricacies of pig breeding in modern life, this study is aimed at predicting the body weight (BW) of pigs using two popular LSTM versions, machine learning, and ensemble algorithms. Additionally, the study evaluated the models' performances using several notable metrics. With the dataset of Duroc pigs, the study performed several experiments so as to address the bias resulting from feature selection, i.e., the impact of using a subset of data or using all input parameters. Additionally, K-fold cross-validation experiments were used to check the consistencies of results across the models. Based on several experiments alongside K-fold cross-validation, the bidirectional LSTM models (with Adam-ReLU optimizer and activation function pair) had higher R² and lower MSE values compared to the vanilla LSTM models. For boosting algorithms, the CatBoosting regressor performed well with 4 input features, while XGBoost and LightGBM regressors showed remarkable test R² values for all input features. For ensemble models, the stacking regressor gave somewhat better generalization (high test R² scores); bagging regressors are exceptional in performance during training while incurring the huge costs for training time and memory usage. The voting regressor offers an excellent compromise between computation time and memory efficiency and performance, as confirmed by K-fold experiments on the ensemble models. Finally, the essentiality of bias was discussed in view of the study outcomes and literature. Moreover, explainability techniques were used to highlight feature contributions and impact.
